you
okay so i have a scrambled cube here let
me just take a moment to inspect okay
wow I like the tap just had to align the
layers and that's it I'm Paul Hoffman
I'm a math geek and on the CEO of
Liberty Science Center an interactive
science museum on the jersey city bank
of the Hudson River near the statue of
liberty and we're gathered here right
now to talk about Rubik's Cube Rubik's
Cube will be 40 years old next year and
here at Liberty Science Center in
collaboration with google and Erno Rubik
we are building a very large interactive
exhibition to celebrate 40 years of
Rubik's Cube and all the things that
it's led to that it's inspired engineers
physicists filmmakers artists and we
have experts on Rubik's Cube joining us
from all over the world right now from
Budapest from London from Seattle from
Texas from Michigan and here in Jersey
City and first I'd like to go to our
very special guest the inventor of
Rubik's Cube Erno Rubik in Budapest 40
years ago never dreamed that will happen
after so logged on I was sure I found
something about interesting and
inspiring and I think one of the reasons
why it has inspired so much cultural
reflection is that it's very rare to
have an object which is small enough and
simple enough that you can look at it
immediately and see what the puzzle is
so at its essence a toy it's playful it
brings joy to a lot of people and
there's this elegant simplicity to it so
you know we take that a sort of the
spirit that we want to pervade
throughout the exhibition and the most
stunning thing for me was although you
know actually when you calculate the
number of symmetries you know the number
of different configurations of colors is
of the order
I think what is it something like 43
quintillion 18 zeroes I think also
there's something in us where we want to
bring order to chaos even though is
we've talked about it's very difficult
to solve for that help it takes a huge
amount of effort if you're not going to
cheat and look at a YouTube video or get
help from freds but there's really not a
trick to solving the Rubik's Cube there
are methods you can learn so that when
you see certain positions you'll know
how to solve that specific part of the
cube before moving on further along in
your journey of solving the cube but you
want to solve it you we want to bring uh
you know I'm a messy person in general i
wish my office one can see but you know
there's something in the human condition
that i think that we want to bring in
order to to cast and science is like
that it's both chaos and complexity it's
both formula and intuition at once and i
think it's that dualism that is such an
important part of science that you have
to use the rigorous side of your mind
that you also have to be open to just
letting your mind play and so I find
that mesh very naturally and I find that
I mean the reason why I enjoy making art
that is inspired by biology or physics
or mathematics in this case is that it's
beautiful and I think that's part of the
genius of this object that in many ways
it's like a kindergarten toy but it
actually teaches us profound things
mentally but also I think beautifully
physically it teaches us about our
relationship in space because here's a
little thing that we can hold in our
hands but what I love about this cube is
the stunning discovery by mathematicians
that but although it's got so many
different symmetries actually it only
takes 20 moves to return any
configuration of the cube back to its
original order and that's why I choose
the colors the colors are very emotional
elements of our life it's if we are
using the primary colors what is very
easy to distinguish that helps so I
wanted to design the cube the appearance
of the cube to have the user to have the
soul because I will I believe in my
experience the fast is difficult enough
by itself you don't need to make it more
difficult